you
this lecture is about the expectation
maximization algorithm also called the
e/m outward in this lecture we're going
to continue the discussion of
probabilistic atop the models in
particular we're going to introduce the
e/m algorithm which is a family of
useful algorithms for computing the
maximum likelihood estimator of mixture
models so this is now a familiar
scenario of using a two component a
mixture model to try to factor out the
background words from one topical water
distribution yeah so we're interested in
computing this estimate and we're going
to try to adjust these probability
values to maximize the probability of
the observe the document and note that
we assume that all the other parameters
are known so the only thing unknown is
these were the probabilities given by
Zeta sub T and in this lecture we're
going to look into how to compute this
maximum likelihood estimator now let's
start with the idea of separating the
words in the text data into two groups
one group would be explained by the
background model the other group would
be explained by the unknown topic
auditive space after all this is the
basic idea of mixed model but suppose we
actually know which word is from which
distribution so that would mean for
example these words the is and we
unknown to be from this background or
this region on the other hand the other
words text mining clustering etc are
known to be from the topic or the
distribution if you can see the color
then these are shown in blue these blue
words are they're assumed to be from the
topic of Ward distribution if we already
and know how to separate these words
then the problem of estimating the word
distribution would be extremely simple
right if you think about this for a
moment you'll realize that well we can
simply take all these words
are known to be from this water
distribution thinness of tea and
normalize them so indeed this problem
would be very easy to solve if we have
known which words are from which its
distribution precisely and this is in
fact making this model no longer mixture
model because we can already observe
which distribution has been used to
generate which part of the data so we
actually go back to the the single water
distribution problem and in this case
let's call these words that are known to
be from theta D a pseudo document of D
prime and now all we need to do is just
normalize these water comes for each
word W sub I and that's fill it's
straightforward and it's just dictated
by the maximum micro resonator now this
idea however doesn't work because we in
practice don't really know which word is
from which distribution but this gives
us the idea of perhaps we can guess
which word is from widget education
specifically given all the parameters
can we infer the distribution a word is
form so let's assume that we actually
know tentative probabilities for these
words in theta sub D so now all the
parameters are known for this mixture
model and now they let's consider word
like a text so the question is do you
think text is more likely have been
having been generated from ceará sub T
or from theorems of a B so in other
words we want to infer which this region
has been used to generate in this text
now this inference process is a typical
Bayesian inference
situation where we have some prior about
these two distributions so can you see
what is our prior here
well the prior here is the probability
of each
right so the prior is given by these two
probabilities in this case the prior is
saying that each model is equally likely
but we can imagine perhaps a different
prior as possible so this is a coda
prior because this is our guess of which
distribution has been used to generate
the world before we even of Brazil of
the world so that's why we call it apply
I see if we don't observe the world we
don't know what word has been observed
our best guess is you say well there are
equally likely right so it's just a
flipping a coin now in Bayesian
inference we typically then would update
our belief after we have observed
evidence so what is the evidence here
well the evidence here is the word text
now that we know we're interested in the
word text so tester can be regarded as
evidence and in the if we use Bayes rule
to combine the prior and the data
likelihood what we will end up with is
to combine the prior with the likelihood
that you see here which is basically
probability of the word text from each
distribution and we see that in both
cases text is possible note that even in
the background it is still possible it
just has a very small probability right
so intuitively what would be your guess
so in this case now if you're like many
others your guest text is probably from
ceará sub D it's more likely from theta
sub D Y and you will probably see that
it's because text that has a much higher
probability here by the thinness of D
then by the background model which has a
very small probability and by this we're
going to say well text is more likely
from C Rosati so you see our
yes of which this ravine has been used
to generate the text would depend on how
high the probability of the data of the
text is in each word distribution we can
do tell to guess that this reasoning
that gives the word a higher probability
and this is actually to maximize the
likelihood right so we're going to
choose a word that has a higher
likelihood so in other words we're going
to compare these two probabilities of
the word given by each distributions but
our guests must also be affected by the
prior so we also need to compare these
two priors why because imagine if we
adjust these probabilities we're going
to say the probability of choosing a
background model is almost 100% now if
you have that kind of strong fire then
that would affect your gas you might
think well wait a moment
maybe text could have been from the
background as well although the
probability is very small here the prior
is very high so in the end we have to
combine the two and the base formula
provides provides us a solid and
principled way of making this a kind of
gas to quantify that so more
specifically let's think about the
probability that this word text has been
generated in fact from ceará sub T well
the the in order for texts to be
generated from theta sub D two things
must happen first the proceed R sub D
must have been selected so we have the
selection pop up anything here
and secondly we also have to actually
have observed attacks from the
distribution so when we multiply the two
together we get the probability that
text has in fact being generated from
zero something similarly for the
background model and the probability of
generating texture is another product
of Savannah for now we also introduced a
latent variable Z here to denote whether
the word is from the background or the
topic when Z is zero it means it's a
from the topic theta sub D when it's 1
it means it's from the background theta
sub B so now we have the probability
that text is generated from each then we
simply we can simply normalize them to
have a estimate of the probability that
the word text is from theta sub T or
from theta sub sub B and equivalently
the probability that Z is equal to 0
given that the observed evidence is text
so this is a application of Bayes rule
but this step is very crucial for
understanding the EML words because if
we can do this then we would be able to
first initialize the parameter values
somewhat randomly and then we're going
to take a guess of these Z values and or
which distributing has been used to
generate which were right and the
initialize the parameter values would
allow us to have a complete
specification of the mixture model which
further allows us to apply Bayes rule to
infer which distribution is more likely
to generate each word and this
prediction essentially helped us to
separate words from the two
distributions although we can't separate
them for sure but we can separate them
probabilistically as you know here
you